Man:
PREVIOUSLY ON
"IN TREATMENT"...
YOU KNOW,
YOU'VE NEVER ONCE
TAKEN RESPONSIBILITY
FOR WHAT YOU DID?
YOU NEVER ONCE SAID,
"I'M SORRY.
I MADE A MISTAKE."
HE'S OBVIOUSLY
NOT WILLING TO FORGIVE ME
BECAUSE HE HASN'T
MADE UP HIS MIND ABOUT
THIS OTHER WOMAN YET.
BY THE WAY,
ANOTHER THING
WE HAVEN'T TALKED ABOUT--
WHAT KIND
OF MOTHER YOU'VE BEEN.
CAN WE TALK ABOUT THAT?
YOU SHOULD REALLY BE QUIET
RIGHT NOW, 'CAUSE YOU'RE
EMBARRASSING YOURSELF.
GINA, YOU SAID THAT
I MIGHT'VE PUSHED
KATE INTO HER AFFAIR
BECAUSE OF MY FEELINGS
FOR LAURA.
MAYBE IT'S
THE OTHER WAY AROUND.
YOU'RE BOTH GOING
THROUGH SOMETHING.
SHE'S STRUGGLING
WITH A DYNAMIC
THAT EXISTED
BEFORE YOU MET
AND YOU'RE LOOKING
FOR THAT YOUNGER WOMAN
WHO LOOKS UP TO YOU
THE WAY KATE USED TO.
OH, THAT'S GREAT.
THAT'S JUST REALLY GREAT.
- HI, GINA.
- HI, PAUL.
HOW ARE YOU?
SO, OBVIOUSLY
KATE ISN'T COMING TODAY.
YES, SHE LEFT ME
A MESSAGE.
SHE REALLY DIDN'T GO
INTO WHY THOUGH.
SHE SAID SHE WAS TIRED
OF GOING BACK AND FORTH
AND SHE'S TIRED
OF TRYING TO FIND OUT
WHO STARTED WHAT
AND WHO WAS GUILTY OF WHAT
AND WHO'S
REACTING TO WHAT.
SHE WANTS TO DECIDE
ON HER OWN, BASICALLY.
WELL, I HAVE TO
RESPECT THAT.
( theme music playing )
HOW DO YOU
THINK OUR SESSIONS
WITH KATE WENT?
I'D SAY
THEY WERE CHAOTIC.
I WAS A LITTLE ANNOYED
WITH YOU OVER THAT,
BUT I SUPPOSE
I'M PARTLY AT FAULT TOO.
AND I ALSO THINK
THAT SHE FELT SANDWICHED
BETWEEN TWO THERAPISTS.
I DO HAVE TO SAY, THOUGH,
THAT YOU DID MANAGE
TO MAKE CONNECTIONS
THAT RESONATED
WITH BOTH OF US,
ESPECIALLY WITH KATE.
WHETHER ANYTHING IS
GONNA COME OF THAT
OR NOT, I DON'T--
I DON'T REALLY KNOW.
MMM. YOU KNOW
WHO I ENVY?
WRITERS. THEY CREATE
THESE CHARACTERS
THAT THEY WANT
TO SPEND TIME WITH,
AND THEN THEY DECIDE
IF THEY'RE GONNA
LET THEM LIVE OR DIE
OR LET THEM BE
HAPPY OR UNHAPPY,
LET THEM BE
FAILURES OR SUCCESSES.
YOU MEAN YOU WANT TO WRITE
EVERYBODY'S STORY FOR THEM?
( chuckles )
MIND YOU, I THINK
I'D BE A SHITTY WRITER.
I'D WANT TO GIVE
EVERYBODY A HAPPY ENDING.
PAUL...
I'M VERY SORRY
ABOUT YOUR PATIENT.
ALEX.
YEAH. THANKS.
NOT THE ENDING
I WOULD HAVE
WRITTEN FOR HIM.
( sighs )
THE FUNERAL--
JESUS CHRIST,
I'D FORGOTTEN
HOW AWFUL FUNERALS ARE.
THAT DREADFUL SENSE THAT--
THAT IN THE END
THERE'S ONLY SILENCE.
YOU'D THINK AS THERAPISTS,
WE'D HAVE BETTER TOOLS
TO WORK THROUGH IT.
WELL, I DON'T.
I FEEL THE SAME SENSE OF...
FUTILITY AND HOPELESSNESS
AS THE NEXT GUY.
YOU KNOW, WHAT'S ALSO
INTERESTING IS SEEING
THE RELATIVES
OF PATIENTS
THAT YOU'VE TREATED.
THE PARTICIPANTS IN
THE STORIES THAT YOU'VE
HEARD DOZENS OF TIMES--
THE FATHER, THE SON,
THE BROTHER-- WHOEVER.
WE THINK WE KNOW THEM,
BUT WE DON'T
REALLY KNOW THEM AT ALL.
WE KNOW REACTIONS TO THEM
OR VERSIONS OF THEM--
IDEALIZED OR VILIFIED.
AND I WAS REALLY STRUGGLING
TO RECONCILE THIS IMAGE
THAT I HAD
OF ALEX'S WIFE
WITH THE WOMAN
THAT I SAW THERE.
HE ALWAYS DESCRIBED HER
AS DEMANDING, EXACTING,
A CONSTANT SORT
OF PRESSURE IN HIS LIFE.
BUT I LOOKED OVER
AND I JUST SAW THIS...
BROKEN WOMAN.
SHE SEEMED
SO SOFT AND GENTLE.
GUESS I'LL NEVER
REALLY KNOW HER NOW.
- DOES THAT BOTHER YOU?
- IT DOES BOTHER ME.
I ASK MYSELF
ALL THE TIME
IF I ACTUALLY KNOW
WHAT I THINK I KNOW
ABOUT MY PATIENTS' LIVES.
THAT COUPLE,
FOR EXAMPLE,
THE ONES WHO WERE
TRYING TO HAVE THE BABY.
AMY-- I DON'T THINK
SHE CAN EVER REALLY BE KNOWN.
I MEAN, THERE ARE
CERTAIN PATTERNS THAT
IDENTIFY THEMSELVES
FROM HER PAST,
BUT I CANNOT...
SHRINK HER.
SHE'S TOO COMPLICATED.
AND THEN I SAY TO MYSELF
"DO I REALLY KNOW
ANY OF THESE PEOPLE,
OR ARE THEY ALL
JUST ONE BIG FICTION
THAT I'VE CONSTRUCTED
IN MY HEAD?" YOU KNOW?
SOMETIMES I DREAM
ABOUT THE FAMILY MEMBERS
OF PATIENTS THAT I'M TREATING,
PEOPLE I'VE NEVER MET.
YOU KNOW,
IT'S CURIOUS.
APART FROM
YOUR INTENSE CONNECTION
WITH YOUR PATIENTS,
YOU'RE ALSO
NOW TALKING ABOUT
A LONGING
FOR YOUR PATIENTS'
FAMILY AND FRIENDS.
( sighs )
WHAT DO YOU MEAN
BY THAT, "A LONGING"?
MAYBE THAT'S
NOT THE RIGHT WORD.
DO YOU MEAN CURIOSITY
ABOUT THE LIVES
OF OTHER PEOPLE?
ISN'T THAT AN ASPECT
OF WHAT WE DO?
IT'S JUST--
IT'S CURIOSITY.
WE'RE SUPPOSED
TO BE FASCINATED
BY HOW PEOPLE BEHAVE,
AT LEAST--
AT LEAST I THINK SO.
ALEX'S DEATH
LEFT ME WITH THIS
VERY STRONG FEELING
THAT I WAS
LIKE A REPOSITORY,
REALLY, A TRUSTEE.
THERE WERE THINGS THAT
HE NEVER TOLD ANYBODY ELSE,
HIS PRIVATE THOUGHTS,
AND THEY'VE STAYED WITH ME.
THEY'RE INSIDE ME.
A BIG PART OF HIS LIFE
IS IN THIS VAULT
I HAVE INSIDE ME.
A PART
OF HIS LIFE MAYBE,
BUT NOT NECESSARILY
A BIG PART.
YOU WERE
HIS THERAPIST.
- ONLY HIS THERAPIST, YES.
- YES.
I KNOW YOU'VE
ALWAYS BEEN OF TWO MINDS
IN RELATION TO THIS,
THAT THERAPY IS
MORE THAN A DISCIPLINE,
THAT IT'S ACTUALLY A RELIGION.
BUT YOU ALSO SAY
WE'RE THERAPISTS
AND WE CAN'T REALLY RUN
OUR PATIENTS' LIVES FOR THEM.
AS SOON AS THEY
WALK OUT THE DOOR,
THEY'RE ON THEIR OWN, YEAH?
HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE
ALEX'S STATE OF MIND
THE LAST TIME YOU SAW HIM?
I WOULD SAY HE WAS
PRETTY FRAGILE,
VULNERABLE. YEAH.
YOU KNOW, THE IRONIC THING
IS THAT WE'D REALLY MADE
SOME GOOD PROGRESS,
AND HE JUST SEEMED
TO REGRESS.
IT WAS LIKE HE FELT
THAT HE WAS SO CLOSE
TO A BREAKTHROUGH
THAT IT SCARED HIM.
IT WAS TOO MUCH
AND HE JUST...
óó
HE TURNED AWAY
FROM IT.
ARE YOU FEELING
IN ANY WAY RESPONSIBLE
FOR HIS DEATH?
( clears throat )
YOU KNOW, I'M FRIENDLY
WITH A PSYCHIATRIST
THAT CONSULTS
FOR THE NAVY--
ALFONSO CAILLAS.
- DO YOU REMEMBER HIM?
- OH YEAH.
WELL, I ASKED HIM
IF HE COULD FIND OUT ANYTHING.
HE SAID VERTIGO.
IT MEANS
THERE'S NOTHING WRONG
WITH THE EQUIPMENT.
THEY WERE DOING SOME KIND
OF COMBAT EXERCISE.
THE PLANE HE WAS
CHASING DESCENDED
AND ALEX WENT
INTO VERTIGO--
WHAT THEY CALL VERTIGO--
AND LOST CONTROL.
THAT'S THEIR...
OFFICIAL CONCLUSION.
I THINK
HE KILLED HIMSELF.
- HOW CAN YOU
BE SURE OF THAT?
- LOOK, HIS LIFE WAS...
A TRAGEDY
FROM THE SECOND
HE WAS BORN--
HIS CHILDHOOD,
HIS RELATIONSHIP
WITH HIS FATHER,
RIGHT UP TO THE TIME
HE PUSHED THE BUTTON
AND KILLED A ROOMFUL
OF KIDS.
HOW DO YOU LIVE
WITH THAT?
EVEN WITH THE GADGETS
THAT THEY HAVE NOW
THAT REDUCE PEOPLE
TO DOTS ON A VIDEO SCREEN,
ALL THE SPIN
FROM THE NAVY--
NONE OF IT MADE
ANY DIFFERENCE TO HIM.
IT DIDN'T WORK ON HIM.
HE FELT EVERY SINGLE
ONE OF THOSE DEATHS.
I KNOW HE DID.
OH, SO MANY EXPECTATIONS.
THE BEST
AND THE BRIGHTEST.
HMM.
AND HE WAS.
HE WAS SO STRONG
PHYSICALLY
AND HANDSOME,
INTELLIGENT.
AND UNDER ALL THAT
KIND OF POSTURING
AND MALE POSING
THAT HE DID,
HE WAS REALLY...
HE WAS A GOOD GUY.
CHARMING.
HE WAS ENDEARING,
YOU KNOW?
HE LOOKED
AND HE SOUNDED LIKE...
WHAT THEY CALL
A WINNER.
SUDDENLY HE BECOMES
A MURDERER.
HOW DO YOU
RECONCILE THAT?
I THINK THAT'S
WHAT REALLY KILLED HIM.
ENDEARING.
I'VE NEVER HEARD YOU
TALK ABOUT HIM LIKE THAT.
QUITE THE OPPOSITE.
ACTUALLY, HE WAS
KIND OF A FUNNY GUY.
HE WAS...
I DON'T KNOW.
AM I ALREADY BEGINNING
TO IDEALIZE HIM?
- YEAH, MAYBE.
- WELL, IT'S NOT UNCOMMON
AFTER SUCH A SHOCK.
HE GAVE ME THE CHANCE
TO STOP HIM FROM FLYING.
LITERALLY?
DID HE REALLY OFFER THAT
OR ARE YOU PROJECTING?
HE ASKED ME DIRECTLY,
"SHOULD I FLY?"
- WHAT DID YOU SAY?
- I TOLD HIM I WAS
VERY CONCERNED
ABOUT HIS STATE
OF MIND.
- YOU SAID THAT CLEARLY?
- MM-HMM.
BUT HE WANTED ME
TO SAY IT UNEQUIVOCALLY,
- "DO NOT FLY."
- IT'S NOT YOUR PLACE, PAUL.
A PATIENT CAN'T ASK YOU
TO TAKE HIS LIFE
INTO YOUR HANDS.
IT'S NOT YOUR PLACE
TO SAY, "DON'T FLY"
ANY MORE THAN
IT'S YOUR PLACE
TO SAY TO THAT COUPLE,
"HAVE AN ABORTION."
OR TO LAURA, "MARRY
OR DON'T MARRY YOUR FIANCE."
I SHOULD HAVE SENT
THE NAVY AN EVALUATION.
"GUILT-RIDDEN.
WANTS TO PUNISH HIMSELF.
SHOULDN'T FLY."
ALEX'S DAD CAME
INTO THE OFFICE TO...
HUH, TO TALK.
SO I HAD THIS POOR GUY
YELLING AT ME
SAYING THAT
HIS SON'S REPRESSION
WAS WHAT HAD KEPT
HIM ALIVE ALL THE TIME,
AND THAT THERAPY--
THE STUFF THAT HE WAS
DOING WITH ME--
THAT THERAPY WAS
THE THING THAT KILLED HIM.
- OH, GOD, PAUL.
- UP IN THE AIR AT MACH 5,
HE'S NOT SUPPOSED
TO HAVE EMOTIONS,
TO THINK.
THAT'S ACTUALLY
WHY HE CRASHED.
( sighs heavily )
HE WAS VERY DIFFERENT
FROM WHAT I IMAGINED, ALSO.
HE WAS RIDDLED WITH,
YOU KNOW, HIS OWN GUILT.
ACTUALLY, HE DID MAKE
A COUPLE OF GOOD POINTS.
HE SAID THINGS WERE
IN THE UNCONSCIOUS
FOR A REASON,
BECAUSE THE MIND
CANNOT LIVE
OR BREATHE OR TAKE
A SINGLE STEP
IF EVERYTHING
THAT LIES DORMANT IN IT
WERE OUT THERE
IN DAYLIGHT, FULLY LIT.
A FULLY-CONSCIOUS HUMAN BEING
WOULD BE PARALYZED,
WOULD BE LIKE
A CRIPPLE.
ALEX DIDN'T NEED
TO BE CONSCIOUS,
JUST MERELY EFFICIENT.
DO YOU REALLY ACCEPT THAT?
THAT LIFE IS BETTER LIVED
UNEXAMINED?
AND WHEN--
WHEN ANXIETY,
FEAR AND PAIN
BUBBLE UP FROM BELOW,
HOW CAN THAT
BE DEALT WITH EXCEPT
BY LOOKING AT IT?
EXCEPT BY ANALYZING IT?
BUT WE DON'T RUN
THE SHOW, PAUL.
I SOMETIMES THINK
THAT THERAPISTS CAN
START TO IMAGINE
THEY'RE LIKE WRITERS,
THAT THEY CAN CONTROL
THE OUTCOME.
WE DON'T LIVE
THEIR LIVES FOR THEM.
WE DON'T EVEN LIVE
THEIR LIVES WITH THEM.
I KNOW THAT YOU WANT
TO BELIEVE THAT
WE REALLY DO HAVE
AN INFLUENCE THAT'S
ALWAYS POSITIVE.
WE HELP PEOPLE
TO UNDERSTAND--
TO UNDERSTAND WHAT
THEY'RE FEELING.
AND AFTER THAT,
IF THEY MAKE A WRONG TURN,
THEN IT'S NOT OUR FAULT.
IT'S HUMAN ERROR.
THA-- ANYWAY...
- WHO ARE YOU
REALLY ANGRY AT?
- MYSELF, OBVIOUSLY.
YOU. HUH.
EVERY THERAPIST
FROM FREUD TO MITCHELL.
- WHY?
- BECAUSE...
WE FORCE PATIENTS
TO LOOK AT THEMSELVES
AND PAT OURSELVES
ON THE BACK FOR IT.
THEN WE SAY
TO THEM, "HERE'S WHAT'S
WRONG WITH YOU.
NOW OFF YOU GO."
- DID YOU FEEL
THIS WAY BEFORE ALEX DIED?
- MORE OR LESS, YEAH.
HAS IT BEEN
ON YOUR MIND RECENTLY
IN ANY OTHER CONTEXT?
- LIKE WHAT?
- I'M ASKING.
HAVE OTHER PATIENTS
OTHER THAN ALEX
- MADE YOU THINK LIKE THIS?
- YOU'RE INSINUATING.
NO, I'M JUST
TRYING TO GET
A SENSE, A HISTORY...
OF THESE FEELINGS
ABOUT PSYCHOTHERAPY.
YOU MEAN HAVE I BEEN
WONDERING FOR A WHILE
IF OUR PROFESSION IS
ACTUALLY HELPFUL TO PEOPLE?
YES, I HAVE.
I THINK ABOUT IT EVERY DAY.
SO YOU FEEL YOU'RE NOT ABLE
TO HELP YOUR PATIENTS?
THE GYMNAST,
FOR EXAMPLE-- SOPHIE.
WELL, HONESTLY I FEEL
THAT SHE MADE
A LOT OF PROGRESS.
WE CONNECTED.
THERE WAS A BOND
BETWEEN US.
BUT I THINK IT WAS
THE PERSONAL RELATIONSHIP
THAT HELPED HER,
NOT THE THERAPEUTIC PROCESS.
YOU KNOW,
MAYBE YALOM IS RIGHT.
MAYBE IT IS
THE RELATIONSHIP
THAT ACTUALLY HEALS.
BUT THAT OTHER COUPLE,
JAKE AND AMY,
I CANNOT TELL YOU,
HONESTLY,
IF THEY'RE BETTER OFF
TOGETHER OR APART.
I DON'T KNOW
IF I HELPED THEM AT ALL.
ANYWAY...
ARE YOU OKAY, PAUL?
I THINK
I'M TIRED, GINA.
- HERE, PUT YOUR FEET UP.
- ( wood scrapes )
MMM.
YOU KNOW, ALEX,
HE WAS TALKING
ABOUT VERTIGO
AND HE SAID THAT
WHEN IT HAPPENS,
THEY'RE SUPPOSED TO
TRUST THEIR INSTRUMENTS
- AND NOT THEIR SENSES.
- THAT'S RIGHT.
HOW DO YOU KNOW THAT?
I ONCE HAD A BOYFRIEND
WHO WAS A COMMERCIAL PILOT.
THIS WAS BEFORE DAVID.
HE TAUGHT ME THAT...
AMONG OTHER THINGS.
( chuckles )
YES, PAUL.
I HAVE BEEN MORE
THAN A SLEEPY SPIDER.
HMM.
- SO IT SEEMS.
- MM-HMM.
ANYWAY, I THINK
IT'S THE OPPOSITE
FOR PSYCHOLOGISTS.
I THINK WE'D BE
FAR MORE EFFECTIVE
IF WE RELIED
LESS ON INSTRUMENTS,
THEORIES AND BOOKS
AND MORE
ON OUR OWN INSTINCTS.
SO ALL YOUR TRAINING,
ALL YOUR KNOWLEDGE
- CAN LEAD YOU ASTRAY?
- I THINK SO.
DO YOU FEEL THIS
GENERALLY
OR ABOUT CERTAIN PATIENTS
IN PARTICULAR?
WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
WHAT IS IT, GINA?
WHAT?
YOU'VE GOT
THAT LOOK OF YOURS.
- WHAT LOOK IS THAT?
- YOU HAVE THE LOOK
THAT SAYS,
"I HAVE A THEORY."
- REGARDING WHAT?
- OH, COME ON,
CUT THE CRAP.
JUST TELL ME WHAT YOU THINK.
I'M JUST SITTING HERE
LISTENING TO YOU.
I'M LISTENING
TO YOUR NEWFOUND THEORIES
ABOUT THE USELESSNESS
OF PSYCHOTHERAPY.
"CERTAIN PATIENTS
IN PARTICULAR"?
( chuckles )
COME ON, WE'RE BACK
TO LAURA AGAIN.
ARE WE?
YOU THINK EVERYTHING IS
A REACTION TO LAURA.
- WHAT'S A REACTION?
- ME CRITICIZING PSYCHOLOGY,
DISMISSING THEORIES.
YOU THINK I'M MAKING EXCUSES.
EVEN ALEX GETTING KILLED--
THAT'S AN EXCUSE, RIGHT?
PSYCHOLOGY IS
COLLAPSING,
SO I MIGHT AS WELL
SLEEP WITH LAURA.
- I THINK THAT'S KIND
OF THE WAY YOU'RE--
- IS THAT WHAT I'M THINKING?
- WELL, AM I WRONG?
- WHEN YOU GUESS WHAT
I'M THINKING,
IT'S ALWAYS ABOUT LAURA.
LIKE I ASSUME
THAT EVERYTHING YOU SAY
- IS CONNECTED TO HER.
- DON'T YOU?
YOU'RE THE ONE
WHO BROUGHT HER UP.
I'M NOT TALKING
ABOUT LAURA.
I'M TALKING ABOUT
THE FACT THAT
I AM HAVING TROUBLE LATELY
BELIEVING IN THIS...
- RELIGION OF YOURS.
- OF MINE?
I DON'T THINK
TRADITIONAL PSYCHOLOGY
ANSWERS ANYTHING ANYMORE.
YOU HAVE
TWO EXTREMES, RIGHT?
POP PSYCHOLOGY,
YOU'VE GOT
THESE CELEBRITY THERAPISTS
WRITING BEST SELLERS,
GETTING ON TALK SHOWS,
AND MAKING
SOME MISERABLE COUPLE
WEEP ON TELEVISION.
IT'S A KIND
OF A PORNOGRAPHY.
AND THEN
ON THE OTHER HAND,
YOU'VE GOT THE EXPERTS,
PSYCHOLOGISTS
LIKE YOU.
ORTHODOX,
AUTHORITY FIGURES.
EVERYTHING UNDER CONTROL
AND SUPERVISED,
EXAMINED UNDER
A BRIGHT LIGHT,
EXAMINED TO DEATH,
COMPLETELY
AND UTTERLY DIVORCED
FROM REAL LIFE.
AM I DIVORCED
FROM REAL LIFE?
GINA, YOU'VE NEVER LIVED
OUTSIDE THIS ROOM--
THE INSTITUTE,
THE GRADUATE PROGRAM,
DAVID'S WORLD.
AND AFTER DAVID DIED,
YOU LOCKED
YOURSELF UP IN HERE.
I MEAN,
IT'S A BEAUTIFUL ROOM.
LOOK AT IT.
BEAUTIFULLY APPOINTED,
EVERYTHING IS IN ITS PLACE.
BUT YOU SIT IN HERE,
AND WHAT DO YOU DO?
YOU WRITE FICTION,
ABOUT HOW LIFE
COULD HAVE BEEN,
SHOULD HAVE BEEN.
IS THAT WHAT
I'M WRITING?
I DON'T KNOW.
JUST ASK YOURSELF,
AS A THERAPIST,
CAN YOU REALLY HELP ANYBODY
IF YOU LIVE IN A BUBBLE?
SO NOW I'M A SLEEPY SPIDER
IN A BUBBLE.
LOOK, I DON'T WANT
TO UPSET YOU, GINA.
- I--
- YOU WON'T.
I FORGOT.
OF COURSE.
YOU DON'T GET UPSET.
- YOU NEVER LOSE IT.
- PAUL.
I'VE LOST IT
HERE WITH YOU
SEVERAL TIMES
IN THE PAST FEW WEEKS.
WHY ARE YOU TRYING
TO PROVOKE ME?
I AM NOT TRYING
TO PROVOKE YOU.
I JUST DON'T WANT
TO END UP LIKE THIS.
IS THIS IT?
THIS IS HOW THERAPISTS
LIVE OUT THEIR LIVES?
YOU ARE PERVERSE.
YOU KNOW, SOMETHING REAL
AND POWERFUL CAME
INTO YOUR LIFE
AND YOU NEVER
GAVE IT A CHANCE.
NOT FOR CHARLIE'S SAKE
OR FOR YOURS.
I KNOW YOU SAID IT WAS
BECAUSE HE WAS A PATIENT,
BUT YOU KNOW
WHAT I THINK?
I THINK
IT WAS BULLSHIT.
- PAUL, BE CAREFUL.
- YOU WERE TERRIFIED.
CHARLIE TOLD ME
THAT YOU WERE
THE BIGGEST
LOSS IN HIS LIFE.
THAT HIS WHOLE LIFE
COULD HAVE BEEN DIFFERENT.
YOU HAVE NO IDEA
WHAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT.
I MEAN,
AFTER ALL THESE YEARS,
YOU DON'T KNOW ME.
YOU WANT TO KNOW
WHAT I STRUGGLE WITH?
IT'S NOT THAT
I'M TOO RESERVED,
TOO DETACHED.
IT'S THAT
I'M TOO EMOTIONAL.
I'M IMPULSIVE
AND EMOTIONAL
AND I GIVE MYSELF OVER
RIGHT AWAY
AND PASSIONATELY.
I POUR MYSELF OUT.
CAN'T YOU SEE
THAT I'M
PROTECTING MYSELF
BECAUSE I'M AFRAID
I'LL GET CARRIED AWAY?
I WON'T BE ABLE TO THINK,
I WON'T BE ABLE TO ANALYZ,
I WON'T BE ABLE TO WORK.
YOU'VE CREATED
THIS COLD VERSION OF ME
THAT'S LIMITING
AND CASTRATING...
BECAUSE WHEN YOU'RE
ARGUING WITH ME
YOU WANT TO SEE YOURSELF
AS BATTLING THE FORCES
OF REPRESSION.
AND IF THE TRUTH IS THAT
I'M AN EMOTIONAL PERSON
WHO HAS TO
REIN HERSELF IN,
IT DOESN'T FIT
WITH WHAT YOU NEED,
NOW DOES IT?
OF COURSE
I WANTED CHARLIE.
HE WAS
THE MOST ALIVE PERSON
I EVER MET.
I WANTED TO SLEEP WITH HIM.
I WANTED TO EAT HIM UP.
BUT I DIDN'T...
AND NOT
BECAUSE OF ETHICS.
I MAY HAVE TOLD HIM
IT WAS BECAUSE
HE WAS A PATIENT,
BUT THE REAL REASON
WAS DAVID,
EVEN THOUGH
DAVID CHEATED ON ME
FOR HOWEVER MANY YEARS.
YES. I KNEW THAT
ALL ALONG.
HE WAS REALLY SHITTY
AT HIDING IT.
I DIDN'T SLEEP
WITH CHARLIE BECAUSE...
THAT'S NOT
WHO I WANTED TO BE.
I LOVED DAVID
AND I LOVED
THE LIFE WE HAD
AND WHO I WAS
WITH HIM.
I LOVED MYSELF
WITH DAVID.
DAVID'S GINA.
AND YOU KNOW WHAT?
WHEN I WAS
STANDING OVER...
HIS GRAVE
AT THE FUNERAL...
I THOUGHT...
IF I WAS
MAGICALLY REBORN...
( crying )
I WOULD CHOOSE HIM
ALL OVER AGAIN.
FOR ALL HIS FAULTS...
( sniffles )
HE ALLOWED ME TO BE
WHO I WANTED TO BE.
I'M SURPRISED
YOU DIDN'T SEE IT,
HOW CRAZY I WAS
ABOUT HIM.
HE WAS EVERYTHING.
I NEVER HEARD
YOU SAY IT.
OH, SHIT.
EVERYTHING HAS TO
BE SAID?
AND NOW I HAVE TO
SIT HERE AND LISTEN
TO YOUR CRAPPY,
NEARSIGHTED,
SELF-INVOLVED THEORIES
ABOUT MY LIFE.
OH GOD.
LISTEN TO US.
YOU KNOW, I SLAP YOU
AND YOU PUNCH ME.
SOMETIMES I TELL MYSELF
IT'S CONSTRUCTIVE,
BUT, YOU KNOW,
I'M NOT SO SURE ANYMORE.
MAYBE WE SHOULD STOP.
( both sigh )
YOU'VE BEEN FIGHTING ME
FOR TWO MONTHS,
SAYING "LAURA,
LAURA, LAURA."
AND YOU'VE BEEN
WAITING FOR THIS
IMAGINARY GINA OF YOURS
TO JUMP IN
AND STOP YOU.
YOU KNOW...
( clears throat)
PAUL, I'M NOT
WHAT'S STOPPING YOU.
YOU'RE FIGHTING YOURSELF.
IT'S UP TO YOU.
IT'S LIKE ALEX.
YOU KNOW, YOU CAREFULLY
LOOKED AT HIS LIFE,
YOU OPENED DOORS
FOR HIM,
YOU GAVE HIM INSIGHT,
BUT HIS LIFE WAS HIS.
AND HE DECIDED TO FLY.
NOW YOU DECIDE.
YOU KNOW,
PERHAPS YOU'RE RIGHT.
MAYBE LOVE CAN BLOOM
IN A THERAPIST'S OFFICE.
AND, YOU KNOW,
ETHICS AND RULES--
LOVE IS BIGGER
THAN ANY RULES.
AND WHAT DO I KNOW?
MAYBE SHE'S YOUR DAVID.
MAYBE YOU CAN ONLY BE
THE PAUL YOU WANT
TO BE WITH HER.
SO GO TO HER.
FIND OUT.
BUT PLEASE...
STOP COMPARING
YOUR LIFE TO MINE.
STOP USING CHARLIE
AGAINST ME.
YOU KNOW,
I'M SORRY HE WAS HURT
BY WHAT HAPPENED...
BUT I NEVER LOVED HIM,
NOT FOR A DAY.
I LOVED DAVID.
SO NEVER TALK TO ME
ABOUT CHARLIE AGAIN,
AM I CLEAR?
PLEASE GO NOW, PAUL.
( door opens )
( door closes )
( theme music playing )